DOC-4533 - restructured release notes, with text edits suggested by Adel (#889)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/4.10/community/release-notes.md

# Corda Community Edition 4.10 release notes

Corda Community Edition 4.10 includes several new features, enhancements, and fixes.

## Platform version change

Corda 4.10 uses platform version 12.

For more information about platform versions, see [Versioning](versioning.md).

## New features and enhancements

> ### New Service Lifecycle Event

Reviewer: Is the case of this correct?

Author: Fixed.

> During startup the node publishes a new service lifecycle event BEFORE_STATE_MACHINE_START immediately prior to starting the state machine, and will not start the state machine until all recipients of the event have handled it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During startup a node publishes a new service lifecycle event BEFORE_STATE_MACHINE_START immediately prior to starting the state machine. The node does not start the state machine until all recipients of the event have handled it.
```

Author: Done.

### Quick RPC for node health check

> Some RPCs provided by the node are now “quick” in that they bypass the standard RPC thread pool and will return relatively quickly even if the node is busy servicing a backlog of RPC requests. The affected RPCs are currentNodeTime(), and getProtocolVersion().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some RPCs provided by the node are now “quick” in that they bypass the standard RPC thread pool and return relatively quickly even if the node is busy servicing a backlog of RPC requests. The affected RPCs are `currentNodeTime()` and `getProtocolVersion()`.
```

Author: Done.

### Peer nodes not permanently blocked

> Previously, if a node failed to open an AMQP connection to a peer node if there was a failure due to a problem with the TLS handshake, it was possible for the peer to be permanently blocked such that further connection attempts would not be attempted unless the node was restarted. With this update, peer nodes are now not permanently blocked but connections are retried using longer intervals - 5x 5 minutes, and then once a day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, if a node failed to open an AMQP connection to a peer node because there was a failure due to a problem with the TLS handshake, it was possible for the peer to be permanently blocked such that further connection attempts would not be attempted unless the node was restarted. With this update, peer nodes are now not permanently blocked but connections are retried using longer intervals - 5x 5 minutes, and then once a day.
```

Author: Done.

### New crypto service configuration option introduced

> A new node configuration option, cryptoServiceFlowRetryCount, has been introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new node configuration option, `cryptoServiceFlowRetryCount`, has been introduced.
```

Author: Done.

### Improved cryptoservice exception behaviour

> Previously, flows that suffered any variant of CryptoServiceException were admitted to the flow hospital for processing. The flow was retried a maximum of two times, and if it still failed then the exception was propagated back to the code that invoked the flow and the flow failed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, flows that suffered any variant of `CryptoServiceException` were admitted to the flow hospital for processing. The flow was retried a maximum of two times, and if it still failed then the exception was propagated back to the code that invoked the flow and the flow failed. 
```

Author: Done.

* If a *negative* value is specified, then a CryptoServiceException is propagated back to the calling code and the flow fails; this was the default behaviour in versions of Corda before 4.10.
* If a *positive* value is specified, then the flow is held in the flow hospital for overnight observation so that a node operator can review it.

### Node status published via JMX

A node now publishes a status via JMX - net.corda.Node.Status - that indicates what it is currently doing. The status is only available if the node is configured to publish information/metrics via JMX.

### Java serialization disabled in the firewall

Java serialization is now disabled in the Corda firewall component, as a mitigation against attack should access be obtained maliciously to perform remote code execution.

### Postgres support

Postgres 13.8 is now supported.

### Flows can now generate OpenTelemetry spans

The opentelemetry tracing signal is now supported in flows across nodes.

## Fixed issues

This release includes the following fixes:

> * Warning messages from Artemis are no longer written to the standard output when disconnecting an SSH client from the node. The warnings are still written to the node’s log file though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Warning messages from Artemis are no longer written to the standard output when disconnecting an SSH client from the node. The warnings are still written to the node’s log file.
```

Author: Done (prefixed second sentence with "However, ".

* Corda node memory usage has been improved when using the tokens SDK with inMemory token selection enabled.

> * A new node configuration option, *cryptoServiceFlowRetryCount*, has been introduced.

Reviewer: Don't think this belongs here?

Author: Done.

> * Corda can fetch users' credentials and permissions from an external data source (for example, from a remote RDBMS). Credentials of this database are configured in the file node.conf. Previously, when a node was run, Corda was logging the password of this database to the log file. This issue has been resolved and the password is no longer written to the log file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Corda can fetch users' credentials and permissions from an external data source (for example, from a remote RDBMS). Credentials of this database are configured in the file `node.conf`. Previously, when a node was run, Corda logged the password of this database to the log file. This issue has been resolved and the password is no longer written to the log file.
```

* Previously, Archive Service commands did not write messages to the log files unless an error or issue occurred. An update now means that messages are also written when commands are run successfully. For more information, refer to [Archive Service Command-Line Interface (CLI)](..\..\..\..\tools\archiving-service\archiving-cli.md)

> * Previously, a memory leak in the transaction cache occurred due to weight of in-flight entries being undervalued. Improvements have been made to prevent in-flight entry weights from being undervalued and, because they are now estimated more correctly, this results in a large decrease in the total size of cached entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a memory leak in the transaction cache occurred due to the weight of in-flight entries being undervalued. Improvements have been made to prevent in-flight entry weights from being undervalued and, because they are now estimated more correctly, this results in a large decrease in the total size of cached entities.
```

Author: Done.

* Flow draining mode no longer acknowledges P2P in-flight messages that have not yet been committed to the database. Previously, flow draining mode acknowledged all in-flight messages as duplicate.

> * Previously, the attachment class loader was being closed too early if it is evicted from the cache. Now, closing of attachment class loaders is delayed until all SerializationContext that refer to them (from BasicVerifier) have gone out of scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the attachment class loader was being closed too early if it was evicted from the cache. Now, closing of attachment class loaders is delayed until all SerializationContext that refer to them (from BasicVerifier) have gone out of scope.
```

Author: done.

> * A rare condition was found when database transactions were rolled back under heavy load that caused flow state machine threads to stop processing flows. This resulted in eventual node lockup in certain circumstances. This fix prevents this from happening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A rare condition was found when database transactions were rolled back under heavy load that caused flow state machine threads to stop processing flows. This resulted in eventual node lockup in certain circumstances. 
```

Author: done.

* Previously, Archive Service commands did not write messages to the log files unless an error or issue occurred. An update now means that messages are also written when commands are run successfully. For more information, refer to [Archive Service Command-Line Interface (CLI)](..\..\..\..\tools\archiving-service\archiving-cli.md)

* Previously, a memory leak in the transaction cache occurred due to the weight of in-flight entries being undervalued. Improvements have been made to prevent in-flight entry weights from being undervalued and, because they are now estimated more correctly, this results in a large decrease in the total size of cached entities.

* Flow draining mode no longer acknowledges P2P in-flight messages that have not yet been committed to the database. Previously, flow draining mode acknowledged all in-flight messages as duplicate.

* Previously, the attachment class loader was being closed too early if it was evicted from the cache. Now, closing of attachment class loaders is delayed until all SerializationContext that refer to them (from BasicVerifier) have gone out of scope.
 

> * A rare condition was found when database transactions were rolled back under heavy load that caused flow state machine threads to stop processing flows. This resulted in eventual node lockup in certain circumstances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Occasionally, database transactions were rolled back under heavy load that caused flow state machine threads to stop processing flows. This resulted in eventual node lockup in certain circumstances.
```
"A rare condition" reads funny to me like you're talking about a new medical discovery but that might just be me!
